The Dying Star - a soundscape by John Marsala. Best experienced with headphones.

Creative Statement/Reflection:
My creative goal for this project was to create an experience that combined lighter, ambient sounds with harsh, abrasive industrial and electronic sounds to represent the different stages of a supernova - the death of a star. The soundscape moves through the initial collapse of the star (ending at ~0:36s mark) to the shockwaves gradually heating the star (~0:36-1:34 mark) to the final explosion of the star, using a variety of organic and synthesized audio samples ranging everywhere from pitch-shifted bass drums to distorted whale songs.
Sonically, this piece is meant to combine seemingly natural sounds with harsher, unusual sounds, to represent the both natural and explosive process of a supernova. I went into this project hoping to use lots of different effects to change and distort the original samples that I used, and was able to use a variety of effects that I didn't have any experience with beforehand in Audacity, such as pitch shifting, reversing, and crossfading audio, among other effects (listed below). Some of the samples I used, such as a glitch sound audible from the 15-30 second mark and a bass drum that gets progressively higher in pitch from the 1:10 to 1:35 mark, were pasted into my project, cut down to a very short length, and then repeated over and over with minor variations (such as reversing, pitch shifting, crossfading, etc). Others,such as the opening synth chord progression that the piece starts with, were pasted into my project and only modified slightly (with distortion and amplification being added, and the clip being left almost in its entirety). My favorite part of the project is probably the last ~25 seconds, where two overlapping sounds can be heard: a distorted whale song that I cut, pitch shifted slightly on one end, and crossfaded back together; and the sound of a circuit beeping that I slowed down and distorted until it started clipping to give the outro an unsettling, glitchy effect.
Overall, I think I did what I set out to do with this project both thematically and sonically, and I'm happy with the end product.

Soundscape info:
Runtime: 2:01
Tracks: 6 (5 stereo and 1 mono)
Sounds sampled: 9
Effects used: 8 (Amplify, Change Pitch, Change Speed, Distortion, Fade In, Fade Out, Reverse, Crossfade Clips)

All audio sources were taken from Freesound.org and have been credited in SOURCES.txt.
